South Korean authorities have seized a second vessel suspected of transferring oil products to North Korea in violation of international sanctions.
The Panama-flagged tanker, KOTI, was seized at Pyeongtaek-Dangjin port, on the west coast, a South Korean customs official said. A marine official said the seizure had happened recently.
The KOTI’s estimated arrival at the port was 19 December, according to VesselFinder, a tracking service. The Yonhap news agency reported that the ship could carry 5,100 tonnes of oil and had a crew mostly from China and Myanmar.
Yonhap said South Korea’s intelligence and customs officials were conducting a joint investigation into the vessel. A foreign ministry spokesman confirmed that an investigation was under way.

The Panama-flagged tanker, which is named Koti, is being held at a port near the western city of Pyeongtaek.

The latest vessel seized, which has a mostly Chinese and Burmese crew, is a 5,100-tonne oil carrier, South Korean news agency Yonhap reported.

South Korea last month reportedly seized a Panama-flagged oil tanker suspected of transferring oil products to North Korea at sea in breach of U.N. sanctions. The tanker, named KOTI, was detained at Pyeongtaek-Dangjin and its crew are being investigated. The KOTI came to the South Korean port in December from Shidao Port, Shandong province, China.

South Korean authorities captured the Hong Kong-flagged Lighthouse Winmore on Nov. 24 and Panama-flagged KOTI on Dec. 21, both suspected of making ship-to-ship transactions of petroleum products with the North, in accordance with U.N. resolutions against the North's nuclear and ICBM tests. Their probes are ongoing.

The owner of the 5,100-ton KOTI, detained at the South's Pyeongtaek-Dangjin port, is the Dalian Grand Ocean Shipping Management Co., based in the Chinese city of Dalian, Liaoning Province, Voice of America said, citing data from the Asia-Pacific Port State Control (PSC).
The company's fax and telephone also use the Chinese national code number, 86, the broadcaster said, adding that the PSC data provides basic information on each ship's owner, address, and telephone and fax numbers.

SEOUL (Reuters) - South Korean authorities have seized a Panama-flagged vessel suspected of transferring oil products to North Korea in violation of international sanctions, a customs official said on Sunday.


The ship, KOTI, was seized at Pyeongtaek-Dangjin port, the official told Reuters, without elaborating, due to the sensitivity of the issue. The port is on the west coast, south of Incheon.


The KOTI’s estimated time of arrival at the port was Dec. 19, according to VesselFinder Ltd., a tracking service provider,The ship can carry 5,100 tonnes of oil and has a crew mostly from China and Myanmar, Yonhap News Agency reported, adding that South Korea’s intelligence and customs officials are conducting a joint probe into the vessel.

The Lighthouse Winmore is one of the 10 ships proposed to be blacklisted. The KOTI does not seem to be included on the list.

An official from South Korea's Foreign Ministry said the 4,626-tonne Koti and its crew members were being held at Pyeongtaek-Dangjin port on the country's west coast amid an inspection over supposed "North Korea-related" activity.
An official from the Pyeongtaek Regional Office of Oceans and Fisheries, who requested anonymity, confirmed that the vessel had been barred from leaving the port since December 21.
The Koti's estimated date of arrival at the port was December 19, according to VesselFinder Ltd, a tracking service provider,
The ship can carry 5,100 tonnes of oil and has a crew mostly from China and Myanmar, Yonhap News Agency reported, adding that South Korea's intelligence and customs officials were conducting a joint probe into the vessel.



South Korea has also seized another tanker with a mainly Chinese and Myanmese crew suspected of transferring oil to North Korea, a report said on Sunday. The 5,100-tonne, Panama-flagged KOTI was detained two weeks ago at the port of Pyeongtaek-Dangjin and its crew was being investigated over alleged ship-to-ship transfers, South Korea’s Yonhap news agency quoted local maritime officials as saying.
South Korean media reported last week that US reconnaissance satellites had spotted Chinese and North Korean ships illegally transferring oil about 30 times since October.


SEOUL—South Korean authorities impounded a second ship suspected of transferring oil to North Korea in violation of U.N. sanctions, three Seoul government officials said Tuesday.


Authorities are unsure if the newly seized ship—the KOTI, registered in Panama—directly transferred oil to a North Korean ship at sea, said an official at the South Korean port of Pyeongtaek, where the vessel is being detained. But the official said they suspect oil from the KOTI “may have eventually gone into” North Korea.
Im Jong-deok, a South Korean customs office spokesman, said the KOTI arrived at Pyeongtaek either Dec. 19 or 20. Mr. Im said he was unsure of the date because the KOTI had changed its expected arrival date at least once, while at sea, in communications with Pyeongtaek port officials.
Seoul officials declined to say why authorities decided to investigate the KOTI, or what entity owns and operates it. According to the shipping database Equasis.org, the ship is owned by KOTI Corp, which uses the address of the ship’s Hong Kong-based manager, Harmonized Resources Shipping Management Co. Hong Kong corporate records list the owner of Harmonized Resources as Ma Guixian, with an address and telephone number in Dalian, a port city in northeastern China.


Officials seized the KOTI, a Panamanian-flagged vessel, after it was suspected of illegally selling oil to North Korea, maritime authorities told South Korea's Yonhap news agency.
The ship, which can carry 5,100 metric tons of oil, is currently docked in Pyeongtaek-Dangjin port on South Korea's west coast after security officials reportedly decided on December 21 not to allow the vessel to leave the port, according to Yonhap citing a local maritime office.